Okay,
guys.
And welcome back.
Now I know that we could perform the same function as a V.
Look up by just having a loop looking tree loads a day to satisfy a certain criteria and
then return in the value we know how to do loops.
We know how to test values of cells use in logical testing,
But to be honest with the feeling that works beautifully in Excel and we can adapt it so it
works beautifully in our visual basic code to So here is the code to do that.
Just this.
What I've done is I've set up a locally declared variable because it's inside the sub and
I've just called it tempts.
All I want to do is temporarily hold the value off the worksheet function the look up now
when If it's actually before we get started,
Here's a tip for you.
If your code looks like this and you find yourself having to scroll over to seize all,
you can break it down so it splits over a couple of lines.
So what I'm gonna say Here's 10 p equals application dot Working function will come back to
the specifics of this in a minute and somewhere in your code hitter space.
Hit the under school and then press enter and then you can just tab over Andi.
They go.
It looks nice and neat,
and when you click off,
it's not gonna era so anywhere in your code.
Not in the middle of a string iisten to add.
But,
well,
I'm sure we'll come to that when we come to the tech section somewhere in your code,
preferably between arguments.
Space underscore his hands out and then tab over so you can see it right?
Let's have a look and have this function works.
We are signing the results off this to our variable temp.
Now,
whenever you use a worksheet function,
switches V look up.
You have to proceed with application dot worksheet function dot on the name of the function
you want to call on.
Then,
after that,
it's pretty much straightforward kind of stuff.
What we have to do is specify it in VB,
a speak so here way have said range E to where is normally in a straight.
They look up in excel.
It would just say e to We have to say this is a range and it is called e to.
That is they'll look up value.
The order is still exactly the same.
Comma range.
Open open quotes 02 Sorry.
04 to P eight.
Close quote.
Close brackets again.
This is arranged.
The look of range,
by the way,
is over here somewhere.
Vega in 0204 through p eight.
So you are.
We have to explicitly tell it.
This is the range on.
We can write the range and then proceeded with the range open brackets quotes.
So everything has to be in this format on then the rest of it.
It's just the same common to come falls.
So if I wanted to get a look of value looking at e two in this range into our temp variable
,
I just hit eight.
Step through on.
There you go.
Which I'm fairly sure is right.
Calling around what?
We were looking at it.
I think it was hair color.
Yes,
a hair commercial.
Hair color is brown.
You should probably have some protection.
In fact 15.
This has no basis in science.
By the way,
I've just completely made this up.
So that's how you use all of excels built in functions in V B.
A.
You just proceed them with application,
that worksheet function and pretty much you can piece it all together.
Just looking at that one.
Example that Okay,
we do have one more example toe look at because sometimes we will have named Ranges or we
would like to have a named range in code.
So that's gonna be a subject of the next lecture on.
Then we completely done with maths.
I'll see you in a few seconds.